==================================================================================
其它论文集合
==================================================================================



行业综述
==================================================================================

《报告》 通过对教育数据挖掘领域专家进行访谈，列出了教育数据挖 掘的四个研究目标[7]:
(1) 通过整合学习者知识、动机、元认知 和态度等详细信息进行学习者模型的构建，预测学习者未来 学习发展趋势。
(2) 探索和改进包含最佳教学内容和教学顺 序的领域模型。
(3) 研究各种学习软件所提供的教学支持的 有效性。
(4) 通过构建包含学习者模型、领域模型和教育软件 教学策略的数据计算模型，促进学习者有效学习的发生。


《报告》指出，为了达到以上四个研究目标，研究者主要 采用以下五类技术方法:
(1) 预测。 建立一个能够从整合多个 预测变量推断单一被预测变量的模式，
例如，研究者通过在 线学习环境中学习者参与在线讨论的情况、 测试情况等，预测学习者在该门课程的学习中是否有失败的风险。
(2) 聚类。 根据数据特性，将一个完整的数据集分成不同的子集，
例如， 研究者根据学习者在在线学习环境中学习困难、交互模式等将学习者分成不同的群组，进而为不同的群组提供合适的学 习资源和组织合适的学习活动。
(3) 关系挖掘。 探索数据集中 各变量之间的相关关系，并将相关关系作为一条规则进行编码，
例如，研究者利用关系挖掘，探索在线学习环境中学习者 学习活动和学习成绩的相关关系，进而用于改进学习内容呈现方式和序列，以及在线教学方法。
(4) 人类判断过程简化。 用一种便于人类理解的方式描述数据，以便人们能够快速地 判断和区分数据特征，该方法主要以可视化数据分析技术为主，
用以改善机器学习模型。
(5) 模型构建。 通过对数据集的 聚类、相关关系挖掘等过程，构建供未来分析的有效现象解 释模型。

学生模型
==================================================================================


A Knowledge Component (KC) is: “a generalization of everyday terms like concept, principle, fact, or skill,
and cognitive science terms like schema, production rule, misconception, or facet” [VanLehn et al. 2007].
They are the atomic units of knowledge.
Generally speaking, students’ modeling on conjunctive-KC steps are more difficult than that on steps that require a single KC.


知识组件（KC）是：“概念，原则，事实或技能等日常术语的概括，以及模式，生产规则，误解或方面等认知科学术语”[VanLehn et al。 2007年]。
它们是知识的原子单位。一般来说，学生对联合KC步骤的建模比需要单个KC的步骤更难。


The three most common student modeling methods are: **Knowledge Tracing (KT)** [Corbett and Ander- son 1995],
**Additive Factor Models (AFM)** [Cen et al. 2006; 2008], and **Performance Factor Models (PFM)** [Pavlik et al. 2009].
When performing student modeling we seek to construct a cognitive model based upon these observed behaviors and to apply
the model to make predictions. Generally speaking, we are interested in three types of predictions:
type 1 is about how unseen students will perform on the observed steps same as those in the observed dataset;
type 2 is about how the same students seen in the observed data will perform on unseen steps;
and type 3 is about how unseen students will perform on unseen steps, that is, both.
For the present purposes we classifie students or steps that appear in the observed training data
as seen and those that appear only in the unobserved test data as unseen.


对比、综述、其它
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Bayesian Knowledge Tracing, Logistic Models, and Beyond: An Overview of Learner Modeling Techniques
BKT LFM 总结

https://www.fi.muni.cz/~xpelanek/publications/umuai-overview.pdf


High-level student modeling with machine learning. Beck, J., & Woolf, B. (2000).

展示了教育数据挖掘预测方法如何用于开发学生模型。 他们使用各种变量来预测学生是否会做出正确答案。



基于认知模型
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Learning Factors Analysis
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


AFM(Additive Factors Model)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PFA(Performance Factors Analysis) PFM(Performance Factor Models)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructional Factors Analysis Model (IFM)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


CFM(Conjunctive Factor Model)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

IFM
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




基于贝叶斯网络
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Bayesian Networks in Educational Assessment

Evaluating the Feasibility of Learning Student Models from Data

Bayesian Networks in Educational Testing


WCRP is a Weighted Chinese Restaurant Process model for inferring skill labels in Bayesian Knowledge Tracing.
https://github.com/robert-lindsey/WCRP



题目关联关系
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

User-expertise modeling with empirically derived probabilistic implication networks
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

挖掘题目之间的偏序关系，来预测学生作答结果 Partial order knowledge structures,POKS

在考察内容上，题目A是题目B的超集，题目A难于题目B。 如果A做对，B也能做对，条件概率P(B|A)；如果B做错，A也会错,条件概率P(~A|~B)


A Bayesian Student Model without Hidden Nodes and Its Comparison with Item Response Theory
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

POKS 和IRT的效果对比，以及在CAT中的应用。




推荐系统
==================================================================================



知识模型
==================================================================================




其它论文集合
============================


大牛baker的课程
http://www.upenn.edu/learninganalytics/ryanbaker/bigdataeducation.html

baker主页 ，很多有价值论文
http://www.upenn.edu/learninganalytics/ryanbaker/publications.html


Learning and Learning Factors
https://www.tc.gc.ca/eng/civilaviation/publications/tp975-parti-menu-1072.htm



Data Mining in Education
http://www.columbia.edu/~rsb2162/Encyclopedia%20Chapter%20Draft%20v10%20-fw.pdf
http://thesai.org/Downloads/Volume7No6/Paper_59-Data_Mining_in_Education.pdf


The State of Educational Data Mining in 2009: A Review and Future Visions
https://jedm.educationaldatamining.org/index.php/JEDM/article/download/8/2




Additive Factors Model
https://github.com/cmaclell/pyAFM



Performance Factors Analysis -- A New Alternative to Knowledge Tracing

http://pact.cs.cmu.edu/koedinger/pubs/AIED%202009%20final%20Pavlik%20Cen%20Keodinger%20corrected.pdf




Instructional Factors Analysis: A Cognitive Model For Multiple Instructional Interventions

http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~ggordon/chi-etal-ifa.pdf




使用附加因子模型和性能因子
在辅导系统中评估学习收益的分析
帮助成年人阅读困难
Using an Additive Factor Model and Performance Factor
Analysis to Assess Learning Gains in a Tutoring System
to Help Adults with Reading Difficulties


http://educationaldatamining.org/EDM2017/proc_files/papers/paper_98.pdf



Comparing Two IRT Models for Conjunctive Skills

https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/daaa/a816ec61677fd88b3996889a00a6d8296290.pdf




学习认知模型 LEARNING COGNITIVE MODELS
PPT版本 可以用来做教学
https://learnlab.org/opportunities/summer/presentations/2010/2010-pslc-summer-school%20Geoff%20Gordon.pdf




Learning from Learning
Curves: Item Response
Theory & Learning Factors
Analysis

https://learnlab.org/opportunities/summer/presentations/2011/2.Learning-curves.pdf



Latent Factor Models with Additive and
Hierarchically-smoothed User Preferences

https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/zh-CN//pubs/archive/40490.pdf





Generalized Learning Factors Analysis:
Improving cognitive Models with Machine Learning

https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Brian_Junker/publication/242079907_Generalized_Learning_Factors_Analysis_Improving_cognitive_Models_with_Machine_Learning/links/00b7d528cc89c62c16000000/Generalized-Learning-Factors-Analysis-Improving-cognitive-Models-with-Machine-Learning.pdf




方差分析

https://onlinecourses.science.psu.edu/stat502/



Evaluating Learning Factors Analysis
http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-872/umap2012_poster_06.pdf


A Study on Learning Factor Analysis – An Educational Data
Mining Technique for Student Knowledge Modeling
http://www.iosrjournals.org/iosr-jce/papers/Vol17-issue6/Version-4/K0176495101.pdf